README.md, before:

# File Info Extension Specification

- **Title:** File Info
- **Identifier:** <https://stac-extensions.github.io/file/v2.1.0/schema.json>
- **Field Name Prefix:** file
- **Scope:** Item, Collection
- **Extension [Maturity Classification](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/tree/master/extensions/README.md#extension-maturity):** Proposal
- **Owner**: @m-mohr
- **History**: [Prior to March 2nd 2021](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/commits/4a841605ad83a16f45fcb88ed90117d6c77a7f04/extensions/file)

Provides a way to specify file related details such as checksum, data type and size for assets in
[STAC Items](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/item-spec/item-spec.md) as well as [STAC Collections](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/collection-spec/collection-spec.md) 
that implement collection-level assets.

- Examples:
  - [Item example](examples/item.json): Shows the basic usage of the extension in a STAC Item
  - [Collection example](examples/collection.json): Shows the basic usage of the extension in a STAC Collection
- [JSON Schema](json-schema/schema.json)
- [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md)

## *Asset Object* fields

The following fields can be used for assets (in the [`Asset Object`](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/item-spec/item-spec.md#asset-object)).

| Field Name           | Type                                    | Description                                                  |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| file:byte_order      | string                                  | The byte order of integer values in the file. One of `big-endian` or `little-endian`. |
| file:checksum        | string                                  | Provides a way to specify file [checksums](#checksums) (e.g. BLAKE2, MD5, SHA1, SHA2, SHA3). The hashes are self-identifying hashes as described in the [Multihash specification](https://github.com/multiformats/multihash) and must be encoded as hexadecimal (base 16) string with lowercase letters. |
| file:header_size     | integer                                 | The header [size](#sizes) of the file, specified in bytes.   |
| file:size            | integer                                 | The file [size](#sizes), specified in bytes.                 |
| file:values          | \[[Mapping Object](#mapping-object)\]   | Lists the value that are in the file and describes their meaning. See the [Mapping Object](#mapping-object) chapter for an example. If given, at least one array element is required. |
| file:local_path      | string                                  | A relative [local path](#local-path) for the asset. |

**Note:** File specific details should not be part of the Item Assets Definition extension to Collections.

### Mapping Object

Value maps are used by assets that are used as classification layers and give details about the values in the asset and their meanings.

| Field Name | Data Type | Description                                                  |
| ---------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| values     | \[any]    | **REQUIRED.** The value(s) in the file. At least one array element is required. |
| summary    | string    | **REQUIRED.** A short description of the value(s).           |

 For example for a cloud cover mask, `file:values` property could contain the following data:

```json
[
	{"value": [0], "summary": "clear"},
	{"value": [1], "summary": "clouds"},
	{"value": [2], "summary": "cloud shadows"}
]
```

### Sizes

Please be aware that the integer values (always
unsigned) given for the sizes (especially `file:size`)
may exceed the maximum value for the default integer
data type in your environment / programming language.
In this specification `integer` specifies
a integer number without an upper limit. You might
need to use other data types to store the values in.
For example, files with a size larger than around 2,14
GB would exceed the maximum value for int32 and in
JavaScript `BigInt` could be used then.

### Checksums

`file:checksum` was previously defined in the
[`checksum` extension](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/tree/v1.0.0-beta.2/extensions/checksum/README.md)
and the field name was `checksum:multihash` before
STAC v1.0.0-rc.1. The specification of the field has
not changed.

Below is a list with checksum examples for some algorithms supported by
[Multihash](https://github.com/multiformats/multihash).
The checksums given are for an ASCII text file with the content `test`.

- Algorithm `sha1` (160 bits): `1114a94a8fe5ccb19ba61c4c0873d391e987982fbbd3`
- Algorithm `sha2` (256 bits): `12209f86d081884c7d659a2feaa0c55ad015a3bf4f1b2b0b822cd15d6c15b0f00a08`
- Algorithm `sha2` (256 bits truncated to 160 bits): `12149f86d081884c7d659a2feaa0c55ad015a3bf4f1b2b0b`
- Algorithm `blake2b-128`: `90e4021044a8995dd50b6657a037a7839304535b`

### Local Path

An asset is referenced with a simple URL that does not give
a good indication about how the file might be organized together
with the other assets when downloaded and/or extracted to a
local filesystem.

By default, the main purpose is file downloading but the purpose
of this field may be refined by other extensions, e.g., an archive
extension may indicate the location of the asset in a ZIP or TAR
file which at the same time is also the local path to extract the
file to.
For example, some software require that the asset is placed in
a specific relative folder or the metadata asset might contain
references relative to another asset.

The `file:local_path` field indicates a **relative** path that
can be used by clients for different purposes to organize the
files locally. For compatibility reasons the name-separator
character in paths **must** be `/` and the Windows separator `\`
is **not** allowed.

**Example use case:**
[SNAP toolbox](https://step.esa.int/main/) reads the SAFE manifest
to open a product that references the different files (e.g. image bands)
relatively and thus expects to find them in the referenced folder (e.g. `IMG_DATA`).

## Contributing

All contributions are subject to the
[STAC Specification Code of Conduct](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
For contributions, please follow the
[STAC specification contributing guide](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) Instructions
for running tests are copied here for convenience.

### Running tests

The same checks that run as checks on PR's are part of the repository and can be run locally to verify that changes are valid.
To run tests locally, you'll need `npm`, which is a standard part of any [node.js installation](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

First you'll need to install everything with npm once. Just navigate to the root of this repository and on
your command line run:
```bash
npm install
```

Then to check markdown formatting and test the examples against the JSON schema, you can run:
```bash
npm test
```

This will spit out the same texts that you see online, and you can then go and fix your markdown or examples.

If the tests reveal formatting problems with the examples, you can fix them with:
```bash
npm run format-examples
```

Commit message:

update to support STAC Catalogs and link objects (#1) (#9)
Co-authored-by: Matthias Mohr <m.mohr@uni-muenster.de>

README.md, after:

# File Info Extension Specification

- **Title:** File Info
- **Identifier:** <https://stac-extensions.github.io/file/v2.1.0/schema.json>
- **Field Name Prefix:** file
- **Scope:** Item, Catalog, Collection
- **Extension [Maturity Classification](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/tree/master/extensions/README.md#extension-maturity):** Proposal
- **Owner**: @m-mohr
- **History**: [Prior to March 2nd 2021](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/commits/4a841605ad83a16f45fcb88ed90117d6c77a7f04/extensions/file)

Provides a way to specify file related details such as checksum, data type and size for assets in
[STAC Items](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/item-spec/item-spec.md),
[STAC Catalogs](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/catalog-spec/catalog-spec.md), as well as
[STAC Collections](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/collection-spec/collection-spec.md) that implement collection-level assets.

- Examples:
  - [Item example](examples/item.json): Shows the basic usage of the extension in a STAC Item
  - [Catalog example](examples/catalog.json): Shows the basic usage of the extension in a STAC Catalog
  - [Collection example](examples/collection.json): Shows the basic usage of the extension in a STAC Collection
- [JSON Schema](json-schema/schema.json)
- [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md)

## *Asset / Link Object* fields

The following fields can be used for assets (in the
[`Asset Object`](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/item-spec/item-spec.md#asset-object)) or links (in the
[`Link Object`](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/item-spec/item-spec.md#link-object)).

| Field Name           | Type                                    | Description                                                  |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| file:byte_order      | string                                  | The byte order of integer values in the file. One of `big-endian` or `little-endian`. |
| file:checksum        | string                                  | Provides a way to specify file [checksums](#checksums) (e.g. BLAKE2, MD5, SHA1, SHA2, SHA3). The hashes are self-identifying hashes as described in the [Multihash specification](https://github.com/multiformats/multihash) and must be encoded as hexadecimal (base 16) string with lowercase letters. |
| file:header_size     | integer                                 | The header [size](#sizes) of the file, specified in bytes.   |
| file:size            | integer                                 | The file [size](#sizes), specified in bytes.                 |
| file:values          | \[[Mapping Object](#mapping-object)\]   | Lists the value that are in the file and describes their meaning. See the [Mapping Object](#mapping-object) chapter for an example. If given, at least one array element is required. |
| file:local_path      | string                                  | A relative [local path](#local-path) for the asset/link. |

**Note:** File specific details should not be part of the Item Assets Definition extension to Collections.

### Mapping Object

Value maps are used by assets/links that are used as classification layers and give details about the values in the asset/link and their meanings.

| Field Name | Data Type | Description                                                  |
| ---------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| values     | \[any]    | **REQUIRED.** The value(s) in the file. At least one array element is required. |
| summary    | string    | **REQUIRED.** A short description of the value(s).           |

 For example for a cloud cover mask, `file:values` property could contain the following data:

```json
[
	{"value": [0], "summary": "clear"},
	{"value": [1], "summary": "clouds"},
	{"value": [2], "summary": "cloud shadows"}
]
```

### Sizes

Please be aware that the integer values (always
unsigned) given for the sizes (especially `file:size`)
may exceed the maximum value for the default integer
data type in your environment / programming language.
In this specification `integer` specifies
a integer number without an upper limit. You might
need to use other data types to store the values in.
For example, files with a size larger than around 2,14
GB would exceed the maximum value for int32 and in
JavaScript `BigInt` could be used then.

### Checksums

`file:checksum` was previously defined in the
[`checksum` extension](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/tree/v1.0.0-beta.2/extensions/checksum/README.md)
and the field name was `checksum:multihash` before
STAC v1.0.0-rc.1. The specification of the field has
not changed.

Below is a list with checksum examples for some algorithms supported by
[Multihash](https://github.com/multiformats/multihash).
The checksums given are for an ASCII text file with the content `test`.

- Algorithm `sha1` (160 bits): `1114a94a8fe5ccb19ba61c4c0873d391e987982fbbd3`
- Algorithm `sha2` (256 bits): `12209f86d081884c7d659a2feaa0c55ad015a3bf4f1b2b0b822cd15d6c15b0f00a08`
- Algorithm `sha2` (256 bits truncated to 160 bits): `12149f86d081884c7d659a2feaa0c55ad015a3bf4f1b2b0b`
- Algorithm `blake2b-128`: `90e4021044a8995dd50b6657a037a7839304535b`

### Local Path

An asset/link is referenced with a simple URL that does not give
a good indication about how the file might be organized together
with the other assets/links when downloaded and/or extracted to a
local filesystem.

By default, the main purpose is file downloading but the purpose
of this field may be refined by other extensions, e.g., an archive
extension may indicate the location of the asset/link in a ZIP or TAR
file which at the same time is also the local path to extract the
file to.
For example, some software require that the asset/link is placed in
a specific relative folder or the metadata asset/link might contain
references relative to another asset/link.

The `file:local_path` field indicates a **relative** path that
can be used by clients for different purposes to organize the
files locally. For compatibility reasons the name-separator
character in paths **must** be `/` and the Windows separator `\`
is **not** allowed.

**Example use case:**
[SNAP toolbox](https://step.esa.int/main/) reads the SAFE manifest
to open a product that references the different files (e.g. image bands)
relatively and thus expects to find them in the referenced folder (e.g. `IMG_DATA`).

## Contributing

All contributions are subject to the
[STAC Specification Code of Conduct](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
For contributions, please follow the
[STAC specification contributing guide](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) Instructions
for running tests are copied here for convenience.

### Running tests

The same checks that run as checks on PR's are part of the repository and can be run locally to verify that changes are valid.
To run tests locally, you'll need `npm`, which is a standard part of any [node.js installation](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

First you'll need to install everything with npm once. Just navigate to the root of this repository and on
your command line run:
```bash
npm install
```

Then to check markdown formatting and test the examples against the JSON schema, you can run:
```bash
npm test
```

This will spit out the same texts that you see online, and you can then go and fix your markdown or examples.

If the tests reveal formatting problems with the examples, you can fix them with:
```bash
npm run format-examples
```
